# **GNO Office Hours Transcript 28.2.2023**

**Valeh:** [00:00:31] Let's give it a minute or two for everyone to join. Okay. I think we can start. So welcome, everyone, to the Round Table Office Hours. The objective is to share your work in progress with us and have input from the Gno.land team. Manfred is here as well as the rest of the contributors, so we want you to feel free to ask questions about Game of Realms. Anything you've been working on, anything you've been thinking of working on.

So in this session, we decided to go with a new format and invite a couple of our contributors who have been making very positive contributions to the governance challenge. However, if you have prepared anything in regard to your work in progress, please do not hesitate to join the discussion. Feel free to let us know and we will make a time slot for you to share your work. Now I think I'm going to let our contributors that we have agreed to be on the stage, Andrew and Giuseppe, introduce themselves, and we can start the discussion. Andrew.

**Andrew:** [00:03:00] All right, hi, everyone. My name is Andrew. I work as a junior product manager and researcher at On Bloc and to share a bit about what we do here at On Bloc, we're a software development team based in Seoul, and we're committed to building a suite of tools and infrastructure for Gno.land. So far we've built Adena, a web extension wallet for Gno.land, and Gnoscan, a blockchain explorer for Gno.land. Anyways, back to me, I first hopped into crypto in 2017 and have joined a couple of startup incubators and a product studio, and I'm currently responsible for product design, research, and content writing at On Bloc. I think that pretty much sums up who I am and where I come from.

**Giuseppe:** [00:04:00] So I guess I'm going to go next, so, hi, guys, I'm Giuseppe. I was a team member in the Ignite project, but I've been also interested in this specific governance challenge, you know, and I'm also, as an independent contributor, growing more interested in the project, more in general due to its potential. So my background is basically been working in crypto, for now, a couple of years, specifically in Cosmos, because I was part of All in Bits, which is actually a collaboration that appears to be ongoing. And yeah, I think that says it all in terms of introduction.

**Jae:** [00:04:59] Hello, Giuseppe, hello Andrew.

**Giuseppe:** [00:05:10] So, maybe we want to do the round table about the other points, Andrew, and then, I mean, I don't want to necessarily hijack the conversation with questions regarding the specific progress we were doing on the design that Andrew proposed. But I also thought that I guess, let's start with the points that you asked to touch on.

**Manfred:** [00:05:50] I have a suggestion because maybe Jae can introduce what is the vision of the need for a governance module and why it makes sense to experiment with the governance module during Game of Realms and also Gno.land, but also why it's not only for Gno, and then we can discuss with just Andrew and Guiseppe, which are the main contributors in Game of Realms, on this topic.

**Jae:** [00:06:24] Okay, sure,  where do we start? I guess one principle that led to the idea to use governance to help with Game of Realms is that we need better accountable organization management. Just across the board, like not only for blockchain organizations but also for just aspects of our lives and our local governance, for a variety of reasons. But the UX isn't there like, I don't know the last time I heard someone using a DAO system and talk or share things about it like, as if, you know, they're sharing a Facebook or, I don't know, MySpace link for the first time. Right? It's not catching on virally.

We sure use the governance features of, you know, Cosmos Hub and share Mintscan and write links to proposals and use the forum a lot for discussion, but, well, at some point, these tools, you know, it may even be harder to have these discussions. So we should move these conversations on-chain to prevent disruptive conversations from happening. But also, we might define, in the case of a large-scale internet censorship attack… we are in the middle of war, anything can happen. They might take the DNS system down. Who knows? It would be nice to have provided tools for discussion and making governance decisions on-chain.

All right, so that's the first use case. The second is based on the principle of eating your own dog food. The idea is, we know we're at a good place where, if we can use our smart contracts to help scale the task of finding, you know, tiers to add to the initial members set, then we know we're at a good point and we've accomplished what we need to do in order to take this to the next level, and it proves itself, so that seems like a good asynchronous description point for where we need to go to.

Also along the way, the product can also be used to help the Cosmos Hub. The Cosmos Hub has its own governance challenges. Namely, we have a lot of categories of discussion that the Cosmos Hub can benefit from if we had better UX for having discussions per category and also being able to manage a budget per category and to be able to showcase all the different teams with competing ideas in one place so that all the relevant facts about how they compare can be shown in one place, in a portal that’s easy to navigate. So it would be a tool that can help us figure out whether a proposal on the Cosmos Hub is worth voting for or not by virtue of being able to look at all the alternatives and see the greater picture, not just what's in the proposal.

That's precisely what we need in order to figure out who we want to have in our initial member set for Gno.land, because there are so many categories that one can contribute in and we're only so many people developing the software. It's going to take a lot of manpower to assess the quality and value of a contribution because it's going to be in so many different areas. So rather than going through all the contributions ourselves – and we expect there to be enough, right? – more than enough, that's going to be difficult for us to consider all of them.

It would be better to create a smart contract system that allows the network of worthy assessors to emerge through the logic of the DAO itself so that we can scale the task of rating the quality of Game of Realms contributors and contributions. So that's the basic idea. I don't know if that was too rambling, or if we can summarize or answer any other questions, or what should we do? We should get to know each other, right? So what did Andrew propose? I'm really sorry. I joined a few minutes late, and since then, even more people have joined.

**Andrew:** [00:13:01] Uh, it's all good. So this approach that we're taking, well, we, as in me and Giuseppe, is that we're trying to recreate the governance model of the Cosmos Hub to somewhat customize it to where it's aligned to the general concepts of Gno.land, and there are two major changes to the system that we're working on compared with the governance model. I'm not going to get too deep into that because it's all visible in the issues, but the first is the removal of the validator set on the selection mechanism based on the amount of delegated staking tokens, and the second is the bicameral governance structure composed of the contributors and the token holders. And yeah, that pretty much is the outline of our work so far.

**Jae:** [00:14:04] Oh, that's cool. All right. Well, this is for Cosmos Hub, right? Because in the Cosmos Hub, you have the ATOM, but I think what we're saying is we want a bicameral House for making decisions or, at least a certain subclass of decisions for the Cosmos Hub so that it includes not just token members, but also has to include a specific set, I suppose, right? Is this right for the Cosmos Hub?

**Andrew:** [00:14:38] Well, it's actually for Gno.land and this is a proposal and I think it makes sense for me to kind of share a little bit more in detail with you on the call, since I'm guessing most of you guys haven't fully viewed the proposal yet, right? So the system is for Gno.land and this first House is called the Contributors' House. ****And obviously, it's composed of core contributors whom we can expect to be accountable and genuine. And these guys are going to be casting legitimate votes that they believe to be beneficial to the system.

Right, but the problem with this is that there needs to be another system that, excuse me if I'm rambling… All right. So the second House is called the Token House, where there are delegates to the system, and these guys are entitled with the power to veto proposals passed by the Contributor's House. Basically, and this is somewhat of a defense line just in case things go sideways, we've been developing this system to where it makes sense and is functional, and in GitHub and Discord, Guiseppe and I have been discussing stuff and trying to see if the community can come up with some helpful feedback and suggestions to help us complete this system.

**Jae:** [00:16:54] So thank you for that. So, for Gno.land, here’s what I had in mind for how to move forward, and let's see how it differs and talk about the differences. The Gno.land governance model has been changing, so it's still in flux and it could really be anything. And what's suggested makes sense, too, so, what if instead of including the GNOT token holders in governance decisions on Gno.land, we limit, we create a separation where the token holders don't have a vote except in certain situations? I guess, with regard to the token itself, those decisions can definitely include both the members and the GNOT token holders. But what about not having token holders vote on general principles around the Hub, such as what the software is or what the rules are in Gno.land?

**Guiseppe3:** [00:18:34] Yeah, the idea that we were pursuing was with the Token House to basically have just the power to veto, which is a defense mechanism we don't expect to be used except sparingly. Also, at least, in the initial design, there will be no incentive to participate in governance for GNOT holders, nor disincentives. So they basically participate only if they want to, while the power to execute, which is everything that you're saying, is going to be in the hands of the Contributor's House, which is tied to well, I don't know if this is going to be the ultimate model, but we were thinking with the number of GNOSH tokens or rather, there will be GNOSH token holders, although again, I don't know if that's going to be the ultimate design of Gno.land. But in any case, you know, they'll be selected members based on their contributions.

They will be responsible for managing the chain with the safeguard of, you know, the Token House can only intervene to stop them in case they want it. That's the only thing they can do. They don't have decision power, except, well, the only thing we envisioned they would have a decision power is to change the governance realm parameters themself, which may entail potentially even banning a member if he's misbehaving. But again, I mean, this is all open to discussion. This is where we were leading and it's up to provide still in some sense some safety mechanism for the token holder, but they will not have the power to execute. They can make proposals themselves, but not actively vote on them except to stop them.

**Jae:** That’s understood. I'd say it makes sense in some regards. So I see the token holders as being like this quasi-capital class, right? They've got money, they've got ATOMs, but they're not experts in virtual machine design. They're not experts in creating. Well, many of them are, but not the voting class as a whole. I mean, just look at what happened with some of the contentious proposals in the past. I think it's pretty clear that like, they as a class should not have too much power, and veto power is arguably a strong power, and also this will bring politics into these decisions of Gno.land that I think from the top, well, I really want it from the top to give it to core contributors, more so than any token system.

There's another reason why I think the token system corrupts. So the fact that it's a fungible token that you can buy and sell in the market corrupts the nature of the project, and so I think it would be safer to create a membership system and have that membership system a slow-grown one with tiers and well-thought-out would do a better job protecting the integrity of the project than anything based on tokens that's fungible. So there was a decision to limit the governance of Gno.land to the top, to the members, and to focus on creating a membership system that is flexible enough to ensure that members, core contributors who are aligned in both expertise understanding, and moral principle all get to become top-level voting members, no matter how many there are.

On the other hand, imagine separating Gno.land from the token GNOT and saying, okay, Gno.land will be governed on the basis by the right people with some notion of, you know, one member, one vote at the top level, but also hosts tokens, and maybe GNOT is like the only token it ever needs to worry about, it ever offers as a fee token, and it also provides a space, a governance space for discussions about the token as a fee token, what to do with its distribution.

So, for example, we could pose the question will there be another airdrop? to the GNOT token holders, and decisions regarding that should be based on the decisions of the token holders, but I think it would also benefit from having a fail-stop veto power from the members themselves just to help with the edge cases for security. But ultimately the GNOT token holders, really should and can, they can always fork and create their own token. So they are by nature, like the token, the token by itself has sovereignty just naturally. It's like an inalienable power… So there really needs to be, what's missing is, who decides what the right decision is for technical consideration? And I think that we need an answer for that that doesn't rely on governance from a veto.

**Guiseppe:** [00:25:58] Yeah, for sure. I mean, in my mind that was more tied to the evaluation DAO as named in the Game of Realms, which I kind of see as somewhat separate from the governance system because the governance system, and in some sense also, maybe, members, should be somewhat separate too. Uh, because the governance should be the ultimate judge. Like what I'm seeing is competing solutions that are evaluated concurrently in the evaluation DAO and then the winning one gets submitted to governance for ultimate approval instead of like, you know, governance itself being hierarchical so that whatever gets selected automatically is implemented.

But yeah, it's not exactly, I guess, what you are discussing. And that's also why, at least from our, from my perspective, you know, I was also working with Andrew on this bicameral design for specific, for governance itself. But yeah, I mean, your points are fair in the sense that you know, you hold a lot of tokens, you have a lot of voting power. It's not what we want, although from our perspective it was more seen as token holders having a way to intervene if the contributors weren't acting properly. But I guess you're seeing it from the other way around, which is, you know, in our case, the House of Contributors is already like, you know, we shouldn't expect to behave maliciously necessarily, right?

**Jae:** [00:28:13] Well, if we do it right, yeah, we have an opportunity to create a House representing, it would be more like the Senate, maybe. I don't know. Or House, or whatever, one of them that represents the core contributors, the creators, the experts of experts that define this project. And I really do see the tokens and, you know, this has been an evolving decision or evolving view, but the GNOT token at the very least represents the users who are not experts in making decisions for the design of Gno.land and also most definitely includes a large class that, you know…

**Guiseppe:** You are purely financially motivated and still with a lot of power, I get it.

**Jae:** And can be hostile, too, and opposed to what Gno.land wants as in terms of the creators. So like as creators and developers, you know, shouldn't we have our own voice and our own hub and our own community where we are sovereign and separated from any economic consideration, but purely based on who we are as people?

**Guiseppe:** [00:29:47] Yeah. Yeah. Makes sense.

**Manfred:** [00:29:52] The goal is to especially design something where we don't have one token but many of them and consider evaluation DAO as one of the external sources of measuring and expertise, which is actually the contributor. But we can design something so in the end we can get an external source proving the humanity, proving, I don't know, the country of residence for something. So yeah, evaluation DAO should be considered as a trusted source for people that care and understand deeply about Gno and can make decisions with that expertise.

**Jae:** [00:30:40] Game of Realms is going to be the main entry point for members into the deciding body of Gno.land and therefore, to include veto power from tokens… there is, to introduce a factor into who they are and what this membership is. So whereas if we separate the concerns entirely and focus on creating a pure membership system… Uh, sorry for repeating myself, but, you know, the bicameral system is needed for making decisions about the token. So it's good that there is a bicameral system.

So ideally, the GNOT is the only token that the Gno.land members promote, right? Like ideally, this is the only token that, or in other words, the less tokens the better from the perspective of complexity and whatnot. And also, you know, we don't need more than one fee token if we get the first fee token right, but, anyways, my point is we can still guarantee that the GNOT token is governed by itself, but still, you know it would be good for, while the token is hosted on Gno.land… So I guess we can do two things, like make a guarantee that the GNOT token could migrate to another hub if you wanted to, and what Gno.land does, in general, is provide a platform for token systems to govern themselves, and while they're hosted on Gno.land, it can have, I guess, the option for the Gno.land token holders to also be part of a bicameral system for making decisions for safety reasons, let’s say.

**Guiseppe:** [00:33:09] Yeah, I mean, it makes sense to me that, you know, we scope out the need for the bicameral system to make decisions that directly impact the token. I guess the way this proposal gets categorized is a problem in and of itself because someone has to honestly tag them as such to trigger, you know, the need for the bicameral system to kick in while for other proposals we simply avoid it. I mean, I do see it as somewhat challenging, but maybe I'm wrong. And in any case, I guess also determining how contributors become members of the governance, you know, well, what we call the House of Contributors in our bicameral design.

But nonetheless, the main governance body, let's say, is somewhat of another challenge, right? Which we also need to address, because, again in our initial thinking, we were simply going to like, assume that there is already a way to attribute GNOSH tokens and again, it's not as you know, we're assuming that it's going to be somewhat of the way it's done, but it doesn't know it can be changed. But again, I guess also what we need to figure out is how we do that. Right? Which will ultimately create this group of contributors. I don't know if there are thoughts around that. I was also curious to know because we didn't really think about it, or if Andrew wants to say something about it. I don't know.

**Jae:** [00:35:43] So as discussing what the House of Contributors should look like?

**Guiseppe:** [00:35:52] Yeah. Because again, in our, so we were somewhat tying it with, at least what was our understanding of the proof of contribution system on Gno.land. And, you know, we were assuming that people were going to be rewarded with GNOSH, right? Which is this non-transferable token, and that would kind of entitle you to access the governance body, right? And participate in governance. But again, all of this is kind of like once we have that system in place, then we can do this, but I don't know. You don't even know if that part of how do we get there was addressed or should be addressed in Game of Realms. I guess with the evaluation DAO maybe or some sort of system like that.

**Jae:** [00:36:53] Okay. Yeah. Well, I don't know. It's a good question. So let's talk about some of the questions here because there's a lot just in my head. Okay. So one is the notion that through Game of Realms, we're going to have like an onboarding of a class of members, but I don't think all the members are necessarily the same. We could have a completely flat membership system. But then, we might feel like there's a need to limit how many members are brought in through Game of Realms, right?

It'd be better, I think, from the perspective of engagement and also just in general, to distinguish levels of membership. So that, at the bottom tier there are new recruits and it's, you know, they're expected to prove themselves over time, and then at the very top are equal peers who satisfy all the conditions and therefore are meant to be, you know, could be legitimately called peers from both a technical and human perspective, right? Okay. So there's another point, from the technical perspective, we might consider splitting the scope of what top-level members are expected to understand, describe it in detail, and formalize it.

Example, maybe they have to know enough, you know, we can split the stack into Consensus, Virtual machine, or language, and a smart contract dApp ecosystem. And, you know, I'm just throwing something out there, maybe we can say you have to be, you know a deep expert in one and understand enough of the other two. And each one can be split into further categories and to be an expert in one maybe you have to understand, you know, two-thirds or 100% of all, say, the modules in Tendermint2, for example. Um, I don't know. But, you know, there's some rule, some way to quantify technical expertise in a membership system.

**Guiseppe:** [00:40:25] I was going to comment that it's hard to quantify. So basically, the way we were thinking, and again, I mean, I invite Andrew also to chime in if he wants to specify anything, be specific about anything is like, so we had kind of a fixed number of seats in the, again, what we call the Contributors House. But then we assume that people get rewarded in GNOSH for their contribution to Gno.land regardless of the contributions.

But in some sense, this creates a system where the top-level GNOSH holders you know, get access to the governance body and this automatically creates a system where people that made a lot of contributions become part of the governance body. And these people are one member, one vote. But again, this is where we were going and it somewhat mirrors, but what you're describing is more specific, although again, hard to quantify because you would need categorization and people that evaluate, you know, competencies in these specific categories, but yeah.

**Jae:** [00:42:00] Yeah, well, I think we can say that you know, it's possible to quantify it. It just takes a lot of work. But we can quantify it, yeah, it's difficult to create the system, but I think it's just a matter of, I guess, fleshing it out, and then there's a lot of design choice and freedom here, too, but one comment was about the fixed number of seats. What if instead of having any fixed number of seats, we just focus on the criteria? Otherwise, try to bring as many members as possible and make the system work despite you know, large number of people in a certain tiered membership, for example, the top-level members the criteria should be such that like they're experts enough that we want everyone who meets those criteria to be part of the membership, member set. So this could be 300 people, it could be 300,000. I don't know.

**Guiseppe:** [00:43:39] Yeah. No, I get what you mean. It would be instead of a fixed number of seats, sort of, if you are, if you have a threshold tier, let's say membership, then you can do you know, you have your voting governance. So it's not fixed in the number of seats, but rather in, yeah, minimum level of competence.

**Jae:** [00:44:11] Maybe there are 3 or 7 levels of membership. And then the highest level, say number seven, has like so many votes, but number two or number six can only have up to some percent of the layer above it. So no matter how many people are in level 6 or 7, it's like there's some limitation to what ultimately can be done. So this way even if there aren't that many people in level seven say, the system, the working DAO is still onboarding many people and in the initial recruit membership level to.. I don't know, just throwing an idea out there, but it seems like we need some. Yeah, it's like this weird problem space of allowing members in but still maintaining some sort of continuous vision and direction.

**Guiseppe:** It should be in some sense still permissionless, but incentives should be extremely aligned automatically kind of, and so should be like a group of people that, you know, follow a common vision and doesn't deviate. Yeah, but it's somewhat hard to achieve. But I mean, that's what we're trying to do in any case. I guess the problem is in understanding again, the initial part better, maybe like how do we determine these tiers and how do I guess if I'm seeing it correctly? It's kind of a pre-step to also whatever we do with governance even though again I mean I think a lot of the issues, we were discussing in the issue that is also shared in the comments, I think it's still worth considering. But nonetheless, I guess, Yeah. Did you guys think of anything about this specific like any detail that, you know, again, I'm talking about how do we quantify? And, you know, I don't, I know we already said, you know, the system is not in place, but any thought here might be, yeah, cool. So sorry about this noise.

**Jae:** [00:47:50] Can you clarify what we're…

**Guiseppe::** [00:47:53] Yes, like so we are saying that the governance will be a tiered system, right, and I guess once we figure out how we quantify these tiers in a more systematic way, the problem, I'm sorry about these noises, the problem becomes a little less hard to tackle. So I guess maybe, you know, would be interesting in trying to give more thought about this initial step of determining the tiers themselves. If it's like, you know something that because I also see in some sense it would be cool to envision some sort of automation so that it's not too tied to necessarily, you know, or at least the possibility of having a conflict of interest or, you know, stuff that humans do play less of a role in this way of determining the tiers.

**Jae:** [00:49:06] Mhm. Um. Okay. I think…

**Guiseppe:** [00:49:11] One last thing I'm going to give, like what if like the system became oxidated in the sense that people start to create what, for example, happens in university in some countries where professors don't want, you know, new competition to be brought into the circle and so they basically, you know? So I was thinking also that it's sort of a problem that can create itself here.

**Jae:** [00:49:44] Okay. Right. So I'll share some further thoughts. Just to throw it out there so we have a better understanding of what choices we have in membership tier systems. Imagine there are three tiers, one, two, and three, with the highest being number three. Then, as we get, let's say we get a lot of contributors through Game of Realms and they enter level one, and then it becomes like, this really political question of what level two is, because people will focus too much on like trying to get into level two, and I feel like there's less space to try things.

Okay. Compared to having seven, just to throw a number out there. Seven. Prime number, then, and level number one is the highest, and level seven is the lowest one. We can have like zero members for levels two, three, four, five, and six and have some number, you know, level seven say just to demonstrate it working. And through Game of Realms, everyone enters through level one, say, you know, and this doesn't have to be true, I'm just saying let's just show an example, we could have the voting system kind of, we can define like a general voting system that works across the levels in this way. Imagine if you say that the voting is, like what, layer? Tier one or tier seven is the highest or tier seven has 100%, well, that tier seven has say, 50% of voting power, and then everyone else gets 50%.

Tier level number six says their voting power… Well, actually, you know, let's define recursively. So level seven, the highest level, and the members there have like 50% say, or like 51%, whatever, or 50%. And the rest is level six. The level six voting power is the members of level six plus they get 50% and 50% are the levels below. And so there's this exponential tapering scheme and it's a general rule. So it's kind of easy to understand. And so in the very beginning, people entered through level one, there's no one in levels two, three, four, five, and six. So level one, no matter how many people there are, get 50% of the vote because that's the rule at the very top, that level seven gets only 50% of the votes. The rest goes to all the other layers.

Okay, so it's flexible and scalable, and then we get the chance to define what level six is, and we can try something. We can try to figure out what the best way to distinguish level seven versus level six is. And even if we get it wrong, the point is we have another chance to try it for level number five. And like as we figure out what’s important, we can keep adding it to the list, right? And kind of experiment as we go along and eventually we'll have a tier system that I think will make sense.

**Guiseppe:** So, in this design, which I like, at least the way voting power is determined, that seems to be very scalable to me too, who is in charge of electing people across the hierarchy? Is like higher-level members that basically promote the others, or I guess that's another thing. Um.

**Jae:** [00:54:31] Maybe just to throw it out there. Maybe we populate, maybe based on Game of Realms, we can kind of identify level seven and level six and level six are the ones who help us figure out, like, who should be in level seven, because we're going to find that's I guess, the point of phase one of Game of Realms, right? Or the tool itself or the DAO itself. Then I guess my point is we'll have level… I'm sorry, I'm getting the numbers wrong. What I meant to say was level one. Level two, I think it's kind of confusing because we, depending on the number of levels, right? Like, So what I meant to say was Game of Realms could bring in two levels. General members who made significant contributions and are promising and also members that we know understand the concepts, the core concepts of the game, and how to program in Gno.land so we should come up with criteria.

Yeah. So in other words, okay, let's imagine seven levels and level one is like people who made good contributions to Game of Realms. Level two are not just contributors, but contributors that demonstrated competency and understanding of the nuances of Gno.land programming so that they can help us figure out who else we should add to level one, right? And then we can figure out what level three means, like as we go, I suppose. I don't know. Just throw it out there. Something along those lines.

**Guiseppe:** [00:56:33] Okay. So it is a system where the higher level in some sense decides also inclusion in the circle of, you know, in the sub, in the lower level tiers and even inclusion of a new peer. Because I'm also thinking like, how does this system work once the network is live? Is it fixed or can it, you know, evolve? And so I was thinking also about that.

**Jae:** [00:57:06] Yeah. Um, well, I guess it makes sense for level one and two to like to figure out as much as they can by themselves, and then maybe there can be intervention from a higher level if it's thought to be needed. So ideally, a lot of the levels kind of build out from the bottom up. But, I don't know if you know. Okay, So it sounds like level two, level two will require like level seven to interject to kind of say, okay, we're going to throw this person from level one to level two, we're going to upgrade this person's membership. It's kind of like an intervention from the top. And maybe that's how it is. Like, maybe how it works is level two requires intervention from at least level three and up. But it could be that another membership can be self-selecting.

**Guiseppe:** Yeah, makes sense. I mean, in general, to me it makes sense that any level is self-selecting but can also influence lower levels if we want to make this tier system like, you know because it's a quantification of the level of competence. So it seems to me that, the higher the level, you can, if you're level seven, you can promote people from level 1 to 2 up to six, but you can also promote people, you know, to level seven itself. And this goes for every level.

**Jae:** [00:59:08] Well, maybe I guess there's a question of should there be a level where self-selection is not yet an expected competency. And I can imagine that like, like, okay, here's…

**Manfred:** I suggest we just let each level decide who can join this level and an upper level can bypass this. Then, the first level is a special one because anyone can join just by making a contribution and probably level two will be the easiest to get promoted. And most of the time we won't prevent level two DAO to add new members, but the more you are going high, the more we expect the level to be restricted, to be looked deeply about, to consider it a lot if it makes sense.

So basically, we consider that each level is like a new wall, a new constraint. And it can be very flexible for the bottom levels. On my side, I prefer to let level two be autonomous and start being restricting from level three. Um, but maybe what I will use in terms of voting options is about vetoing or blacklisting someone. But I don't care that much about the election of new level two members. I think it will be more regarding level three if level one is automatic then level two should be the first layer of getting enough sponsors. Having enough people accepting you. So you're not only a contributor that maybe tricked the system by making a contribution.

**Valeh:** [01:01:34] Jae, we are actually at time. We're past the hour for the office hour. It's been a great discussion. And. I think it would be great to continue with this format and to have other contributors join in next time, to ask questions, and to have discussions. We're going to keep these going regularly and we'll be announcing the next one soon.

**Jae:** [01:02:04] Well, can we continue with this? It's even, I might have to go, but it's really interesting and I wish we can even document some of the points we raise here. Um, one thing I just learned is, yeah, if we're going to have automatic membership, self-selecting membership, probably we need one at the bottom level. So level seven. And level one to level two, should be automatic, right? And then we'll learn things we'll want to fix and that can perhaps be between levels two and three. But, um I don't know. I guess. I suppose I need to get going. Thank you all. And I hope, you know, if possible, maybe we can continue to call and I think we should all be having these kinds of discussions among ourselves frequently. So, thank you all for coming. Can we continue this conversation without me? Manfred? Can you continue on or do you need to get going?

**Manfred:** [01:03:14] I can. I can.

**Jae:** [01:03:16] Okay. All right. Thank you all. And have a good day. Thank you.

**Valeh:** [01:03:38] Thank you, everyone. If there is more time, then, if you would like to discuss, we can continue, however, I think we could also plan a next session very soon and announce it on Discord.

**Manfred:** [01:03:58] Yeah, let's plan the next session. And so this discussion was recorded and it will be nice if someone can transcribe it to open the discussion of the important points on GitHub, it could be a part, it will be a contribution committed for phase one. I suggest you, Andrew, also look at the evaluation DAO because it's more linked to governance modules and then it can look like this for me from the external point of view.

**Guiseppe:** [01:04:38] Yeah. I mean, I guess we'll have to go back to the drawing board basically based on this discussion. I don't know what Andrew thinks but looks like that's the case. I mean, still, the bicameral system makes sense for more specific proposals but we need to figure out the Contributor House and how it works better, which is tied to the evaluation DAO in some sense.

**Andrew:** [01:05:07] Yeah, I think a lot of the points discussed make sense. And let me try to fix the issue and try to reflect what we've discussed in this session and, yeah, we'll go from there.

**Guiseppe:** [01:05:26] Cool to me. Yeah. Let's continue the discussion on GitHub.

**Andrew:** Yeah, sure.

**Manfred:** [01:05:36] And just wanted to share one more thing, I suggest probably, maybe I'm wrong, but I think we should make the governance module independent from evaluation DAO in terms of a modular governance module that can act for anything. So in that case, I suggest that we go with a multi-token approach where each token can be a measure of the expertise or involvement or risk or whatever to measure the voting power of someone. So basically making a governance module supporting multiple tokens. But then there is another question specifically for Gno.land, which is unique thanks to proof of contribution and evaluation DAO, where we can have unique voters with the same voting power, tiered or not. So, yeah, just a suggestion for both of you when you design the module, maybe we can make it modular to support any worst case and then make a use case for Gno.land with only one token, which could be the tiered membership token, like an NFT.

**Guiseppe:** [01:06:49] No, for sure. But I mean, as long as we use interfaces, it's up to the implementation. right? But yeah, still like some points that were touched, like the fact that voting power itself is tied to the tier, which is, you know, and the fact that, it's like 50% plus, you know how it goes to lower levels. I think that's kind of part of the governance system.

**Manfred:** And yeah, for me. You agree we need an interface to say depending on this token here we have an exponential method with seven levels. Here we have just a token, we have a quadratic approach, or I don't know, clearly, it should be an interface, but make sure that you don't make the system just for a unique token because it will probably be the case for Gno, but we also need to make this use case optimized for Gno thanks to Evaluation DAO.

**Guiseppe:** Independent from tokens. Again, as long as we use interfaces, we can still have the tiered system and then you know, it's not even clear if there's going to be tokens for determining the tiers or is like, can be even NFTs. So Non-fungible tokens, we don't know yet. Yeah.

**Manfred:** [01:08:22] Right. Yeah. Just an exception here is I think we will always have some kind of tokens which can be NFTs or fungible tokens. But what I suggest is to make your system support multiple tokens for one reason, because governance at some point will need to be liquid. It can be because some votes are only for a population, so the users or the contributors, or the investors. But if we make governance a liquid democracy, liquid governance modules, probably at some point we will not only delegate everything, but we will delegate for GNOT holding related votes to someone that's contributing or contributor tiered membership to someone else. And if we scale this to a use case, which is the humanity, you can consider that later, I don't want to delegate everything to a validator. I want to delegate my ecological votes to my ecological friend, my education votes to my mother, my local votes to my mayor.

So yeah, I think a great system would support multiple tokens. And in the case of Gno, we probably make something simple with only one unique token, thanks to the uniqueness of having a proof of contribution system in place. But yeah, for me interface is great, but interface should support multiple tokens. Maybe it should support non-token stuff. It can be something else, NFT or whatever. But it's important for me to make a governance module that won't be limited to one implementation to one source of voting power computation.

Basically, each vote could have its interface. It's not a voting booth for the whole governance module, but depending on the vote, it would be nice to say this is a vote for validators, this is a vote for users, this is a vote for stakers, and this is a vote for contributors. Because here, we can have something that makes sense. I prefer to ask validators what they want for all the very details. Got to ask the user question for more people. So just make sure in your design that your proposal won't be limited to one unique source. Even if it's an interface, it should be an interface supporting multiple inputs. Does it make sense?

**Andrew:** Yeah sure

**Manfred:** Great. And thank you very much for your work on GitHub. That's an example I often use to show that a contribution is not limited to developers but here we are making, are building stuff for the future. So all the work of the past. It is educational content. And yeah, we should document the thinking. We should document the failures. We expect to make the best choice and to choose a successful implementation but even the failures and discussions are really interesting. And yeah, we owe this for the future to document the past and explain why we make decisions and why we change our minds. Why we build stuff, actually. I'm happy that Jae has expressed the reasons why he wants a governance module. We build stuff for reasons and now we try to make the best implementation. So thank you very much and thanks very much for your contribution and GitHub. Anyone has a question? Great. I will disconnect.

**Valeh:** [01:13:17] Thank you, everyone.

**Guiseppe::** [01:13:20] Thank you, guys.

**Andrew:** Yeah. Thanks, guys. Bye.
