![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/117160070/235721406-ae52908d-1d54-4c58-86b6-6b70a1e880b6.png)


## Description 

Join Gnolang's core tech team and partners for the monthly developer call, a regular sync with Gnolang developers working on the technology and community members interested in the engineering and development discussions. You can find the proposed agenda below, if you have additional technical points to discuss, please add them to this issue.

Date: June 14th at 5pm CEST
Dial in details shared with core contributors (if you're interested in joining, and actively contributing to the code base, please reach out) and live stream on Gno.land [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@_gnoland/featured)

You can add the Developer Call to your calendar [here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0?cid=Y18xZTVlY2M4NWNhYzY3ZDBiZGE5ZDI3YWRmZjRlOTBiZDMyMjY4ZjI1YTYyMmExZGViODQyMjEwMzllODc4OWEyQGdyb3VwLmNhbGVuZGFyLmdvb2dsZS5jb20).


## Agenda

Welcome to new team members! ðŸ¥³

Gno Contributor Updates
* Onbloc
* Teritori
* Sage
* Zack
* Gno IDE

Gno Team Topics


* Testnet 4 update and multinode testnet experimentation issue [871](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/871) (Moul)
* Banker module issue [875](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/875) (r3v4s)
* Pagination issue [883](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/883) (Doozers)
* Event and emit in gno [853](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/pull/853) (anarcher)
----- this is something discussed for Gno contributors
* IBC updates 
* 
